[Documentation] Adding Developers Guide to docs (#6910)
aces/Loris: docs/wiki/99_Developers/Developers_Guide.md

    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main 
    git checkout -b "branch_name"
    vi filename
    git add filename 
    git status 
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push my_fork branch_name

There is usually no need to fully update your fork to the newest aces/LORIS version, since you can work off whichever branch you just fetched and checked-out.

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

#### Branch Naming
Many LORIS developers follow the convention: “date-title...”.   
Starting with the date allows branches to sort and display in order, and also helps sort out any conflicts faster in the main Loris repository. Please keep branch names short and informative.

#### Development Mode
To activate the development mode, turn sandbox to 1 in the `project/config.xml` file:
```
<dev>
    <sandbox>1</sandbox>
</dev>
```
And then re-compile:
```
npm run compile
```
This will change several configurations in your LORIS project to allow for more verbose error reporting, which is useful for debugging.

### Helpful commands to run before pushing new code:

> Travis is our continuous integration which runs on every PR in GitHub. These commands can catch small formatting errors that will cause the Travis build to fail.

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to be updated yet. We don't use Travis anymore, we use GitHub Actions.

Before starting any PR, be mindful of which branch you want to base off of (main vs release-specific branch).   

You will make a different branch for each PR or change that you are making.  

In general, smaller pull requests or changes are easier to work with in our team review context and will flow more smoothly through the review process.  

Here is a basic workflow if you are trying to make a PR off of the _main_ branch:

    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main 
    git checkout -b "branch_name"
    vi filename
    git add filename 
    git status 
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push my_fork branch_name

There is usually no need to fully update your fork to the newest aces/LORIS version, since you can work off whichever branch you just fetched and checked-out.

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

#### Branch Naming
Many LORIS developers follow the convention: “date-title...”.   
Starting with the date allows branches to sort and display in order, and also helps sort out any conflicts faster in the main Loris repository. Please keep branch names short and informative.

> 

Reviewer 2: ### Development mode
To activate the development mode, turn sandbox to 1 in project/config.xml:
`<dev>
<sandbox>1</sandbox>
</dev>`

And then recompile:

`npm run compile`

This will change several configuration to allow more verbose error reporting, useful when debugging.

Author: I can add this, thanks :)

Author: Added!

                      # found by phpcs marked with a check.

Running unit or integration tests (useful if making significant changes to any module). More details can be found [here](../../../test/README.md):
         
    npm run tests:unit
    # The commands below allow you to run unit tests for a specific 
    # module or a specific test in a module
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest::someTest
    npm run tests:integration

### Good practice for Travis CI
As you get more comfortable with commits and PRs, to save time and Travis errors you can configure your setup so that `make checkstatic` must complete successfully 
before any git push can be done. To do this, run 

    git config core.hooksPath .githooks (git v2.9 or up)
    Or 
    cp .githooks/pre-push .git/hooks/pre-push 

in the LORIS directory to configure the project. Make sure `.git/hooks/pre-push` is executable.

**Notes:** Hooks can be skipped with the flag `--no-verify: git push fork --no-verify`.  
Setting up an ssh key can also be useful to avoid the headache of entering your username and password on each push. 

## 2. Issues

> Issues are used to bring the team's attention to any bugs or feature requests that you come across. When you make an issue, there are 4 options: bug fix, feature request, security 

Reviewer 2: Should we remove this line break?

Author: @laemtl Which line break exactly? The one before the "Issues" header?

Reviewer 2: Between security and vulnerability. 
![Screenshot from 2020-08-25 15-26-38](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/32041423/91218696-73089e80-e6e7-11ea-972f-c0a9d0c5b799.png)

**Note** that automatic issue-linking and issue-closing only works on the default branch.  If the PR is not on the default branch, you will need to manually close the issue after the PR is merged. 

**Labels:** On the right side of the browser, you will see the option to add labels. Please add any that are related to the PR. 
**If** you are working on release testing, make sure to include the label (ex. 23.0.0-testing) to the PR.

**Reviewers/Assignees:** Reviewers are people that you would like to ping specifically, but are not the same as assignees.
Be sure to consult the Contributing and Code Review guidelines. For example, 2 reviewers must approve the PR and any code change must be pulled and tested by a developer before a PR is marked as `Passed Manual Tests`. 

**Travis:** The Travis build status and results are linked near the bottom of your PR in GitHub. 
You can restart Travis if it gives error messages that seem inappropriate, or if the build stalls (for longer than 1h).

> if you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. It is not okay to do this if it's the first commit or if you are fixing more than documentation typos.

Reviewer 3: I think adding it under the "Good practice for Travis" is a good idea. It would help looking up anything related to Travis easier in case someone is looking for a quick reference.

> if you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. It is not okay to do this if it's the first commit or if you are fixing more than documentation typos.

Author: Sounds good! Thanks

**Documentation PRs:** If working specifically on markdown files or other documentation, be sure to check the actual look of the document once you have pushed your PR and fix any formatting errors. You can do this by going to “Files Changed” and viewing how your markdown file will actually appear in GitHub. Don’t forget to click all links to make sure they won't be broken when the document is rendered. 

## 4. Code Review

### Testing or Contributing to someone's PR
First, make a remote of their fork:

    git remote add "their_fork" <their_fork_url>
          
Then, fetch their remote fork and checkout the branch related to their PR:

    git fetch their_fork
    git checkout their_fork/branch_name

Alternatively, to avoid being under the detached HEAD state, checkout and create a local branch with the command

    git checkout -b branch their_fork/branch_name

Follow the provided testing instructions to test their code on your VM. 

> If you made changes (with their permission), commit and push them to that branch:

Reviewer 2: Now we need to request permission to be able to push on someone else repository. Maybe that worth a mention?

Author: That's a good point. Altho this is for external devs so I'm not quite sure if its the same process for them... 
@christinerogers Do you think more needs to be said here?

    git commit -m "Changes made"
    git push their_fork branch_name

Don’t forget to consult the Links (see above) for coding review standards and guidelines and the code review checklist.

### Labels
The `Passed Manual Tests` label can be added to a PR if a reviewer has tested the code on their own VM and determined that it performs as intended.

The `Needs Rebase` label can be added if a PR has merge conflicts with the branch it is based off of.

The `Needs Work` label can be added if a PR is not yet ready for review and requires more work before it can be approved.

Other Labels can also be added by reviewers at their discretion. 

## 5. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (an alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout branch_name
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/main
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts
        git add  filename

>         git rebase --continue

Reviewer 2: or git rebase --skip if changes were discarded

    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts
    git push --force my_fork branch_name
    # --force is often needed here :\

### Tips for fixing a rebase

> 1. The most basic way of “fixing” a rebase is to go back to the commit right before the rebase. The easiest way to do this is to either reset or revert to a previous commit. 

Reviewer 2: Why do we need to fix a rebase? I'm not sure I understand this section :)

Author: Sometimes rebases get messed up. I can change the title to something like "How to fix a rebase gone wrong" or something

Reviewer 2: What is suggested here is a destructive operation. I suggest to perform a backup first. And also not sure why would want to destroy commits after a rebase?

## 1. Working off your fork
During installation, you made your own fork of LORIS. Now you can add two remote options in order to switch between your fork and “aces”.

    git remote rename origin aces
    git remote add my_fork <fork_url>
             
Your fork url will usually have the format:  
    `https://github.com/github-username/LORIS`  
    
Any development should be done on your fork of LORIS, and **not** on aces/LORIS. 
Before starting any PR, be mindful of which branch you want to base off of (main vs release-specific branch).   

You will make a different branch for each PR or change that you are making.  

In general, smaller pull requests or changes are easier to work with in our team review context and will flow more smoothly through the review process.  

Here is a basic workflow if you are trying to make a PR off of the _main_ branch:

    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main 
    git checkout -b "branch_name"
    vi filename
    git add filename 
    git status 
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push my_fork branch_name

> There is usually no need to fully update your fork to the newest aces/LORIS version, since you can work off whichever branch you just fetched and checked-out.

Reviewer: I don't know what this sentence is supposed to mean.

Author: This is referring to how most devs don't update their fork of LORIS, they just fetch aces, checkout the main branch, and then make their own branch from there. I can try to reword this

Reviewer 4: clarification would be useful.  maybe just switch the order of the clauses and spell this out a little more.

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

#### Branch Naming

> Follow the convention most LORIS developers use: “date-title...”.   

Reviewer: I don't think that's a convention that most LORIS developers use

Reviewer 4: it's a convention we appreciate and ask new developers to follow, part of Rida's conventional wisdom. it's also useful for new members.

    vendor/bin/phpcbf --standard=test/LorisCS.xml modules/candidate_list/php/candidate_list.class.inc
                      # phpcbf allows you to automatically fix the errors 
                      # found by phpcs marked with a check.

Running unit or integration tests (useful if making significant changes to any module). More details can be found [here](../../../test/README.md):
         
    npm run tests:unit
    # The commands below allow you to run unit tests for a specific 
    # module or a specific test in a module
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest::someTest
    npm run tests:integration

### Good practice for Travis CI
As you get more comfortable with commits and PRs, to save time and Travis errors you can configure your setup so that `make checkstatic` must complete successfully 
before any git push can be done. To do this, run 

    git config core.hooksPath .githooks (git v2.9 or up)
    Or 
    cp .githooks/pre-push .git/hooks/pre-push 

in the LORIS directory to configure the project. Make sure `.git/hooks/pre-push` is executable.

**Notes:** 

> 1. Hooks can be skipped with the flag `--no-verify: git push fork --no-verify`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Hooks can be skipped with the flag `--no-verify`. ie. `git push --no-verify`.  
```

The way this command is currently quoted is confusing.

Setting up an ssh key can also be useful to avoid the headache of entering your username and password on each push. 

> 2. If you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. This will make the commit skip the Travis build. Do not do this if 

Reviewer 5: I tried `[skip ci]` in one of my PRs (#6671) and it hanged saying `continuous-integration/travis-ci  Expected  —  Waiting for status to be reported (required)` in the checks section. I did not wait because I had another modification to make, but I was expecting an immediate `All checks have passed`, but it's as if it was waiting for checks to run, but it would never actually happen?

Author: Thanks for testing this. The mention of [skip ci] was removed in the latest commit!

> 2. If you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. This will make the commit skip the Travis build. Do not do this if 

Reviewer: `[skip ci]` should never be used on LORIS. PRs that use it won't be merged.

change, make an issue for it and assign yourself to be the one to fix it.

Be sure to observe and follow conventions for how Issues should be named and described and how to ping other people for input.
 
Our team tends to self-assign issues. If you would like to take on a non-trivial issue, please ask us for input early and often.

Don’t just follow the template blindly. For example, remove the “Brief summary of issue” header and put your summary of the issue there.
Don’t leave obvious template words like “(if applicable)” in your issue.
        
## 3. Pull Requests
Once you have created a new branch and pushed an initial commit to it, you will see the option to make a pull request on GitHub. 
Make sure that the branch you are merging into is the branch that you checked-out when you first started making changes, such as main or a release-specific branch.

PRs must be reviewed according to this [checklist](https://github.com/aces/Loris/wiki/Code-Review-Checklist), and must be approved by two reviewers before they are merged. Don’t forget to think about documentation updates like the TestPlan, changelog, and developer guide updates -- these must accompany your PR.

> Make sure to note special rules for SQL patches. Note that changes to Raisinbread data do not need patches, because Rida manages it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to note special rules for SQL patches. Note that changes to Raisinbread data do not need patches, because raisinbread is maintained by sourcing the project patches.
```

> **Do not** review or approve your own PR. Your PR must be reviewed and approved by two other developers before it can be merged. 

Reviewer: This sentence is unnecessary.. GitHub won't let you approve or request changes on your own PR.

> **Important:** Do not merge your own PR or any other PR. After a PR has been reviewed and approved, the code is merged by Dave, the repository maintainer. It will be merged eventually. If your PR is on a release branch and has been ready to merge for a few days, you can add a comment that it is ready to merge. 

Reviewer 5: Is it necessary to mention the repository maintainer by name? It might not be him forever. Also, people outside Loris won't know who Dave is and it is not obvious to know that driusan is Dave

Author: That's a very good point. I mention Rida in this doc as well as the Raisinbread manager, so I will remove his name as well. Thanks!

> **Important:** Do not merge your own PR or any other PR. After a PR has been reviewed and approved, the code is merged by Dave, the repository maintainer. It will be merged eventually. If your PR is on a release branch and has been ready to merge for a few days, you can add a comment that it is ready to merge. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** Do not merge your own PR or any other PR. After a PR has been reviewed and approved by a senior member of the LORIS team. It will be merged eventually. If your PR is on a release branch and has been ready to merge for a few days, you can add a comment that it is ready to merge. 
```

It is your responsibility to be on top of your PRs and any Issues that need follow-up.  This includes answering questions and comments, acknowledging and making change requests, and requesting re-review after you’ve addressed someone’s change requests. 

> This is important for the Team’s productivity -- it prevents PRs from lagging and prevents confusion as to why a PR has stalled or if you’ve seen someone’s comments.

Reviewer: This sentence should be part of the previous paragraph, not a separate paragraph.. otherwise it's not immediately obvious what "this" is referring to. (Also "the Team" isn't a proper noun)

> When issuing a PR, you can request a specific reviewer (this is not the same as assigning a PR to someone).  There is usually an obvious reviewer for a PR.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When issuing a PR, you can request a specific reviewer (this is not the same as assigning a PR to someone) if you know you would like someone in particular to review a PR.
```

This is especially important in Release-Test/Fix cycles when we want PRs to be reviewed and resolved quickly.

### PR Formatting
Be sure to observe and follow team conventions for how PRs should be named and described. 

**Title:** [module_name] Quick description   

**[Contents](../../../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) of the initial comment:** Include a brief summary of the changes and rationale, links to related issues or PRs, and testing instructions if there are any. 

**Linking issues:** Use GitHub keywords like `Fixes` or `Resolves` so that related issues are closed automatically when the PR is merged. Do not use these keywords if you are only addressing one point raised in an issue. This will close the entire issue and leave unresolved bugs in the codebase.

> **Note** that automatic issue-linking and issue-closing only works on the default branch.  If the PR is not on the default branch, you will need to manually close the issue after the PR is merged. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** that automatic issue-linking and issue-closing only works on the default (main) branch.  If the PR is not on the default branch, you will need to manually close the issue after the PR is merged. 
```

**Labels:** On the right side of the browser, you will see the option to add labels. Please add any that are related to the PR. 
**If** you are working on release testing, make sure to include the label (ex. 23.0.0-testing) to the PR.

**Reviewers/Assignees:** Reviewers are people that you would like to ping specifically, but are not the same as assignees.
Be sure to consult the Contributing and Code Review guidelines. For example, 2 reviewers must approve the PR and any code change must be pulled and tested by a developer before a PR is marked as `Passed Manual Tests`. 

**Travis:** The Travis build status and results are linked near the bottom of your PR in GitHub. 
You can restart Travis if it gives error messages that seem inappropriate, or if the build stalls (for longer than 1h).

> As mentioned above, if you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. It is not okay to do this if it's the first commit or if you are fixing more than documentation typos.

Reviewer: No it's not.

**Documentation PRs:** If working specifically on markdown files or other documentation, be sure to check the actual look of the document once you have pushed your PR and fix any formatting errors. You can do this by going to “Files Changed” and viewing how your markdown file will actually appear in GitHub. Don’t forget to click all links to make sure they won't be broken when the document is rendered. 

## 4. Code Review

### Testing or Contributing to someone's PR
First, make a remote of their fork:

    git remote add "their_fork" <their_fork_url>
          
Then, fetch their remote fork and checkout the branch related to their PR:

    git fetch their_fork
    git checkout their_fork/branch_name

Alternatively, to avoid being under the detached HEAD state, checkout and create a local branch with the command

>     git checkout -b branch their_fork/branch_name

Reviewer: you still need the `git fetch` command

    git push their_fork branch_name

Don’t forget to consult the Links (see above) for coding review standards and guidelines and the code review checklist.

### Labels
The `Passed Manual Tests` label can be added to a PR if a reviewer has tested the code on their own VM and determined that it performs as intended.

The `Needs Rebase` label can be added if a PR has merge conflicts with the branch it is based off of.

The `Needs Work` label can be added if a PR is not yet ready for review and requires more work before it can be approved.

Other Labels can also be added by reviewers at their discretion. 

## 5. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (an alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout branch_name
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/main
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts and add any files
        git add  filename
        git rebase --continue
        // OR you can "skip" specific changes
        git rebase --skip
    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts

>     git push --force my_fork branch_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git push --force-with-lease my_fork branch_name
```

>     # --force is often needed here :\

Reviewer: force will always be needed after a rebase.. force modifies history..

### Fixing a rebase gone wrong
1. The most basic way of “fixing” a rebase gone wrong is to go back to the commit right before the rebase. The easiest way to do this is to either reset or revert to a previous commit. **Note** that this is a potentially destructive command, so be very cautious when using it. It is also recommended that you make a backup of your branch before performing these commands so that you don't lose any changes. 
For example:
    
       git reset --hard <commit_hash>

>        git push -f my_fork branch_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       git push --force-with-lease my_fork branch_name
```

2. A more complicated tool that can be used to solve bigger rebasing errors is the command [`git cherry-pick`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick). This command allows you to pick specific commits to apply to a branch. For example, if you rebase the wrong branch or your PR is incorrectly displaying all the commits or files from the branch you rebased, this tool will come in handy. Here is an example workflow:  
    ```
    git checkout branch_name          # The branch that got messed up :(
    git branch -m "temp_branch_name"  # Change the branch name locally:
                                      # This is a failsafe since you will 
                                      # be changing the history of the 
                                      # branch remotely
    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main            # Checkout the branch that your PR is      
                                      # based off of 
    git checkout -b "branch_name"     # Create a “new” branch with the same
                                      # name as the original branch
    git cherry-pick <commit-hash>     # Cherry-pick the commits that you would like to keep

>     git push -f my_fork "branch_name"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    git push --force-with-lease my_fork "branch_name"
```

Travis is our continuous integration which runs on every PR in GitHub. These commands can catch small formatting errors that will cause the Travis build to fail.

    make checkstatic  # includes these 3 commands: 
                      # npm run lint:php, npm run lint:javascript, vendor/bin/phan

    vendor/bin/phpcs --standard=test/LorisCS.xml modules/candidate_list/php/candidate_list.class.inc
                      # phpcs allows you to specifically check the formatting of one file 

    vendor/bin/phpcbf --standard=test/LorisCS.xml modules/candidate_list/php/candidate_list.class.inc
                      # phpcbf allows you to automatically fix the errors 
                      # found by phpcs marked with a check.

Running unit or integration tests (useful if making significant changes to any module). More details can be found [here](../../../test/README.md):
         
    npm run tests:unit
    # The commands below allow you to run unit tests for a specific 
    # module or a specific test in a module
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest
    npm run tests:unit -- --filter CandidateTest::someTest
    npm run tests:integration

> ### Good practice for Travis CI

Reviewer 6: Travis CI is fortunately no longer with us. maybe remove references to it and replace with GitHub Actions or automated tests

This is important for the developer team’s productivity -- it prevents PRs from lagging and prevents confusion as to why a PR has stalled or if you’ve seen someone’s comments.
When issuing a PR, you can request a specific reviewer (this is not the same as assigning a PR to someone) if you know you would like someone in particular to review a PR. 
This is especially important in Release-Test/Fix cycles when we want PRs to be reviewed and resolved quickly.

### PR Formatting
Be sure to observe and follow team conventions for how PRs should be named and described. 

**Title:** [module_name] Quick description   

**[Contents](https://github.com/aces/Loris/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) of the initial comment:** Include a brief summary of the changes and rationale, links to related issues or PRs, and testing instructions if there are any. 

**Linking issues:** Use GitHub keywords like `Fixes` or `Resolves` so that related issues are closed automatically when the PR is merged. Do not use these keywords if you are only addressing one point raised in an issue. This will close the entire issue and leave unresolved bugs in the codebase.

> **Note** that automatic issue-linking and issue-closing only works on the default (main) branch.  If the PR is not on the default branch, you will need to manually close the issue after the PR is merged. 

Reviewer 6: formatting: the note is at the same "level" as the title above it, I think it should be indented to show that its a note for `Linking issues:`

**Labels:** On the right side of the browser, you will see the option to add labels. Please add any that are related to the PR. 
**If** you are working on release testing, make sure to include the label (ex. 23.0.0-testing) to the PR.

**Reviewers/Assignees:** Reviewers are people that you would like to ping specifically, but are not the same as assignees.
Be sure to consult the Contributing and Code Review guidelines. For example, 2 reviewers must approve the PR and any code change must be pulled and tested by a developer before a PR is marked as `Passed Manual Tests`. 

**Travis:** The Travis build status and results are linked near the bottom of your PR in GitHub. 

> You can restart Travis if it gives error messages that seem inappropriate, or if the build stalls (for longer than 1h).

Reviewer 6: no travis, github actions

    ```
    git checkout branch_name          # The branch with rebasing errors
    git branch -m "temp_branch_name"  # Change the branch name locally:
                                      # This is a failsafe since you will
                                      # be changing the history of the
                                      # branch remotely
    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main            # Checkout the branch that your PR is
                                      # based off of
    git checkout -b "branch_name"     # Create a “new” branch with the same
                                      # name as the original branch
    git cherry-pick <commit-hash>     # Cherry-pick the commits that you would like to keep
    git push --force-with-lease my_fork "branch_name"
    ```

## 6. Accessing a Database
To access the database, use the following command with the credentials given to you and provide the password on prompt:  
```
mysql -u user -h host database -p
```

> If you are new to the MySQL commandline, try using `\G` instead of `;` at the end of a query - this will print one column value per line, which makes the query output easier to read.

Reviewer 6: I really don't think it's our job to explain this in any way. and if iit was, this would not be the place for it. by the time you get to developing you must have installed LORIS already and there are 100 places where you would have already connected.

In general we can't write documentation in silos, this is part of a larger documentation and should not reiterate this kind of details

        git reset --hard <commit_hash>
        git push -f origin branch-name

2. If you rebase the wrong branch or your PR is displaying all the commits from the branch you rebased and displays multiple commits or changed files that are not part of your PR:
   	Use git cherry-pick. This command allows you to pick specific commits to apply to a 
   branch. Here is an example workflow:
   
        git checkout "your-branch"       #The branch that got messed up :(
        git branch -m "temp-branch-name" # Change the branch name locally:
                                         # This is a failsafe since you will 
                                         # be changing the history of the 
                                         # branch remotely
        git fetch aces
        git checkout aces/master         # Checkout the branch that your PR is      
                                         # based off of 
        git checkout -b "your-branch"    # Create a “new” branch with the same
                                         # name as the original branch
        git cherry-pick <commit-hash>    # Cherry
        git push -f origin "your-branch"
        

> ## 3. Making a Pull Request

Author: This section is quite word-heavy and can be cut down.

Author: I cut down and re-formatted this to make it easier to read

**Important:** Do not merge your own PR or any other PR. After a PR has been reviewed and approved by a senior member of the LORIS team, it will be merged eventually. If your PR is on a release branch and has been ready to merge for a few days, you can add a comment that it is ready to merge. 

It is your responsibility to be on top of your PRs and any Issues that need follow-up.  This includes answering questions and comments, acknowledging and making change requests, and requesting re-review after you’ve addressed someone’s change requests. 
This is important for the developer team’s productivity -- it prevents PRs from lagging and prevents confusion as to why a PR has stalled or if you’ve seen someone’s comments.
When issuing a PR, you can request a specific reviewer (this is not the same as assigning a PR to someone) if you know you would like someone in particular to review a PR. 
This is especially important in Release-Test/Fix cycles when we want PRs to be reviewed and resolved quickly.

### PR Formatting
Be sure to observe and follow team conventions for how PRs should be named and described. 

**Title:** [module_name] Quick description   

> **[Contents](../../../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) of the initial comment:** Include a brief summary of the changes and rationale, links to related issues or PRs, and testing instructions if there are any. 

Reviewer 2: Absolute link is required here : https://github.com/AlexandraLivadas/Loris/blob/master/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, ottherwise RTD will throw a 404 (this .md is not included in RTD).

Other Labels can also be added by reviewers at their discretion. 

## 5. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (an alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout branch_name
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/main
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts and add any files
        git add  filename
        git rebase --continue
        // OR you can "skip" specific changes
        git rebase --skip
    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts
    git push --force-with-lease my_fork branch_name

### Fixing a rebase gone wrong
1. The most basic way of “fixing” a rebase gone wrong is to go back to the commit right before the rebase. The easiest way to do this is to either reset or revert to a previous commit. **Note** that this is a potentially destructive command, so be very cautious when using it. It is also recommended that you make a backup of your branch before performing these commands so that you don't lose any changes. 
For example:

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove this line break, otherwise RTD will start another numbered list (resulting in two consecutive 1.)

```
git reset --hard <commit_hash>
git push --force-with-lease my_fork branch_name
```

>     

Reviewer 2: And this one

2. A more complicated tool that can be used to solve bigger rebasing errors is the command [`git cherry-pick`](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-cherry-pick). This command allows you to pick specific commits to apply to a branch. For example, if you rebase the wrong branch or your PR is incorrectly displaying all the commits or files from the branch you rebased, this tool will come in handy. Here is an example workflow:

> 

Reviewer 2: Ans also this one

# LORIS Developers Guide

> This document covers topics including making PRs, issues, and how to go through a normal LORIS workflow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This document covers topics including making PRs, issues, and how to go through a normal LORIS workflow, when contirbuting to the LORIS repository. Many notes in this guide are also relevant to contributing code on a fork or instance of LORIS.  
```

> This document covers topics including making PRs, issues, and how to go through a normal LORIS workflow when contributing to the LORIS repository. Many notes in this guide are also relevant to contributing code on a fork or instance of LORIS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This document covers topics including making PRs, issues, and how to go through a normal LORIS workflow when contributing to the LORIS repository. Many notes in this guide are also relevant to contributing code on a fork or instance of LORIS, and many practices described here will be familiar to experienced developers.
```

> ## Links to know, read, and follow

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Key Links
```

> * All markdowns in the Loris GitHub under [docs/](../..) 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Important standards and practices documented in our repo include: 
```

* [Contributing.md](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to contribute to Loris
* [Coding Standards](../../CodingStandards.md)
* [Pull Request Checklist](https://github.com/aces/Loris/wiki/Code-Review-Checklist) and [Code Review guidelines](Code_Review_Guide.md)

## 1. Working off your fork
During installation, you made your own fork of LORIS. Now you can add two remote options in order to switch between your fork and “aces”.

    git remote rename origin aces
    git remote add my_fork <fork_url>
             
Your fork url will usually have the format:  
    `https://github.com/github-username/LORIS`  
    
Any development should be done on your fork of LORIS, and **not** on aces/LORIS. 
Before starting any PR, be mindful of which branch you want to base off of (main vs release-specific branch).   

> You will make a different branch for each PR or change that you are making.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You will make a different branch for each PR or change that you are making.  
In general, smaller pull requests / changes are easier to work with in our team review context and will flow more smoothly through the review process.  
```

Author: This information was added in the internal document but I will add it here as well. Thanks 👍

Reviewer: This thread looks like it should be marked as resolved? (The paragraph is already included below..)

Here is a basic workflow if you are trying to make a PR off of the _main_ branch:

    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main 
    git checkout -b "branch_name"
    vi filename
    git add filename 
    git status 
    git commit -m "Initial commit"
    git push my_fork branch_name

There is usually no need to fully update your fork to the newest aces/LORIS version, since you can work off whichever branch you just fetched and checked-out.

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

#### Branch Naming
Follow the convention most developers use: “date-title...”.   
Starting with the date allows branches to sort and display in order, and also helps sort out any conflicts faster in the main Loris repository.
Don’t forget to make your branch names short and informative, like your commit messages, since they’re read by others on GitHub. 

### Helpful commands to run before pushing new code:

> These commands catch small formatting errors that will cause Travis to fail.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
These commands catch small formatting errors that will cause Travis CI (integrated on our GitHub) to fail.
```

Reviewer 4: @AlexandraLivadas both here and in the next section talk about not tripping up travis, but Travis is only introduced in the next section. Could you change the headers / intro sentence so that this flows better?

**Note** that automatic issue-linking and issue-closing only works on the default branch.  If the PR is not on the default branch, you will need to manually close the issue after the PR is merged. 

**Labels:** On the right side of the browser, you will see the option to add labels. Please add any that are related to the PR. 
**If** you are working on release testing, make sure to include the label (ex. 23.0.0-testing) to the PR.

**Reviewers/Assignees:** Reviewers are people that you would like to ping specifically, but are not the same as assignees.
Be sure to consult the Contributing and Code Review guidelines. For example, 2 reviewers must approve the PR and any code change must be pulled and tested by a developer before a PR is marked as `Passed Manual Tests`. 

**Travis:** The Travis build status and results are linked near the bottom of your PR in GitHub. 
You can restart Travis if it gives error messages that seem inappropriate, or if the build stalls (for longer than 1h).
if you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. It is not okay to do this if it's the first commit or if you are fixing more than documentation typos.

> **Documentation PRs:** If working specifically on markdown files or other documentation, be sure to check the actual look of the document once you have pushed your PR and fix any formatting errors. You can do this by going to “Files Changed” and viewing how your markdown file will actually appear in GitHub. Don’t forget to click all links. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Documentation PRs:** If working specifically on markdown files or other documentation, be sure to check the actual look of the document once you have pushed your PR and fix any formatting errors. You can do this by going to “Files Changed” and viewing how your markdown file will actually appear in GitHub. Don’t forget to click all links to make sure they won't be broken when the document is rendered. 
```

    git remote add "their_fork" <their_fork_url>
          
Then, fetch their remote fork and checkout the branch related to their PR:

    git fetch their_fork
    git checkout their_fork/branch_name

Alternatively, to avoid being under the detached HEAD state, checkout and create a local branch with the command

    git checkout -b branch their_fork/branch_name

Follow the provided testing instructions to test their code on your VM. 

If you made changes (with their permission), commit and push them to that branch:

    git commit -m "Changes made"
    git push their_fork branch_name

Don’t forget to consult the Links (see above) for coding review standards and guidelines and the code review checklist.

### Labels
The `Passed Manual Tests` label can be added to a PR if a reviewer has tested the code on their own VM and determined that it performs as intended.

The `Needs Rebase` label can be added if a PR has merge conflicts with the branch it is based off of.

The `Needs Work` label can be added if a PR is not yet ready for review and requires more work before it can be approved.

Other Labels can also be added by reviewers at their discretion. 

### Code Review Etiquette

> The most important thing to remember during code review is to be respectful and positive in all correspondence with other developers. It is also good practice

Reviewer 4: not for externals.

to be on top of all comments or requests and to respond to every comment.

> #### When to ask for or remind someone to do a review

Reviewer 4: significant tone update needed if this is going to be published.  please move to internal doc.

You may ask for someone to review your PR at your discretion. However, do not assign someone to your PR.

In general, if someone has previously reviewed your PR and requested changes, it is good practice to re-request their review once you have implemented those changes.

If you have requested review on a PR and have not received feedback for a number of days, it is okay to either re-request their review or leave a comment
on the PR pinging the developer with a short message. For example, "Hey @developer, could you please review this PR and let me know what you think."

> #### Implementing suggestions or requested changes

Reviewer 4: this whole section is internal only.  "If you feel that the suggested or requested change is not necessary" is not appropriate for a guide for external devs. "be positive and respectful" etc

It is good practice to implement any requested changes as soon as possible and then re-request review from the developer. It also helps the team if you acknowledge each comment or request with a few words or just an emoji, so that anyone reading will know that you've seen it.

If you feel that the suggested or requested change is not necessary, feel free to respond in the comment section with a clear explanation of why you don't think it is necessary.

> Make sure to stay positive and respectful in all review or comment threads.

Reviewer 4: tone.

#### When to resolve a review or comment thread
If you have implemented a requested change from a review-comment thread, it is good practice to let the developer who requested the change

> resolve the thread. However, if a comment thread is simple or straightforward and has been resolved, feel free to resolve it.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
resolve the thread, so that they get the chance to check your change met their expectations. However, if a comment thread is simple or straightforward (e.g. a typo), feel free to resolve it.
```

If there is context discussed in a review-comment thread that people may want to consult later, don't resolve the comment thread. You can simply put an emoji and add a comment saying "Thanks" or "Change made" to signal that the review has been addressed.

## 5. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (an alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout branch_name
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/main
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts
        git add  filename
        git rebase --continue
    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts
    git push --force my_fork branch_name
    # --force is often needed here :\
       

> This is a specific case. For more information on rebasing, look at this [(2014) Git for LORIS cheat document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yPx72Z7kJtV3WAcyrwtrMOAtQztzJecVQyaLCJ4jdHg/edit#).

Reviewer 4: internal only please.

# LORIS Developers Guide
This document covers topics like making PRs, issues, and how to go through a normal LORIS workflow.

## Links to know, read, and follow
* All markdowns in the Loris GitHub under [docs/](../..) 
* [Contributing.md](../../../CONTRIBUTING.md) - How to contribute to Loris!
* [Coding Standards](../../CodingStandards.md)
* [Pull Request Checklist](https://github.com/aces/Loris/wiki/Code-Review-Checklist) and [Code Review guidelines](Code_Review_Guide.md)

## 1. Working off your fork

> During installation, you should have already made your own fork of LORIS. Then, you should add two remote options so that you can switch between your fork and “aces”.

Reviewer 4: let's try to find a way to phrase these docs without "should"

Before starting any PR, be mindful of which branch you want to base off of (main vs release-specific branch).  
You will make a different branch for each PR/change that you are making.  

Here is a basic workflow, if you are trying to make a PR off of the main branch:

    git fetch aces
    git checkout aces/main 
    git checkout -b "2020-05-06-fixCandidateTestPlan"
    vi filename
    git add filename 
    git status 
    git commit -m "initial commit"
    git push myFork 2020-05-06-fixCandidateTestPlan

There is usually no need to fully update your fork to the newest aces/LORIS version, since you can work off whichever branch you just fetched and checked-out!

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

**About Branch naming:** Follow the convention most devs use: “date-title...”.   
Starting with the date allows branches to sort/display in order, and also helps sort out any conflicts faster in the main Loris repo.
Don’t forget to make your branch names short and informative, like your commit messages, since they’re read by others on GitHub. 

### Helpful commands to run before pushing new code:

> These commands catch small formatting erros that will cause Travis to fail.

Reviewer 4: typo - can you give the doc a proofread when you have a moment?

See also: [How to win the love of Travis](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FDYOiyv-2m_nf2JIhJs8YjUCoHjELNyMNrHuqErD6O0/edit#slide=id.p). 
(2019 presentation by John Saigle).

## 2. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout another_new_branch_name
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/master
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts!
        git add  filename
        git rebase --continue
    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts
    git push --force origin another_new_branch_name
    # --force is often needed here :\
       
This is a specific case. For more information on rebasing, look at this [(2014) Git for LORIS cheat document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yPx72Z7kJtV3WAcyrwtrMOAtQztzJecVQyaLCJ4jdHg/edit#)!

### Tips for fixing a rebase
1. The most basic way of “fixing” a rebase is to go back to the commit right before the rebase. The easiest way to do this is to either reset or revert to a previous commit. For example:
    

>        git reset --hard <commit_hash>

Reviewer 4: some inconsistent indentation

It’s your responsibility to be on top of your PRs, and any Issues that need follow-up.  This includes answering questions and comments, acknowledging and making change requests, and requesting re-review after you’ve addressed someone’s change requests. 

This is important for the Team’s productivity -- it prevents PRs from lagging and prevents confusion as to why a PR has stalled or if you’ve seen someone’s comments.
When issuing a PR, you can request a specific reviewer (this is not the same as assigning a PR to someone).  There is usually an obvious reviewer for a PR.  
This is especially important in Release-Test/Fix cycles when we want PRs to be reviewed and resolved quickly.

### PR Formatting
Be sure to observe and follow team conventions for how PRs should be named and described. 

**Title:** [module_name] Quick description   

**[Contents](../../../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) of initial comment:** Should include a brief summary of the changes and rationale, links to related issues or PRs, and testing instructions. 

> **Linking issues:** Use GitHub keywords like `Fixes` or `Resolves` so that the issue is closed automatically when the PR is merged.

Reviewer 4: add : do not use these key words if you are only addressing one point raised in the issue.  this will close the entire issue and leave unresolved bugs.

If you feel that the suggested or requested change is not necessary, feel free to respond in the comment section with a clear explanation of why you don't think it is necessary.
Make sure to stay positive and respectful in all review or comment threads!

#### When to resolve a review or comment thread
If you have implemented a requested change from a review-comment thread, it is good practice to let the developer who requested the change
resolve the thread. However, if a comment thread is simple or straightforward and has been resolved, feel free to resolve it.

If there is context discussed in a review-comment thread that people may want to consult later, don't resolve the comment thread. You can simply put an emoji and add a comment saying "Thanks" or "Change made" to signal that the review has been addressed.

## 6. Accessing a Database
To access the database, use the following command, using the credentials given to you:  
```
mysql -u user -h host database -p
```
and provide the password on prompt.

To preview very large tables, use `\G` instead of `;` at the end of a query. This
 formats the query output nicely, so that you can read through it easier. 

> 

Reviewer 4: whitespace here should be removed in your next pass to clean up the typos, spacing, indentation, grammar, tone etc...

 **Never** push to aces/Loris. Your branch will be deleted. Always push to your fork, and then create the PR from GitHub.

> **About Branch naming:** Follow the convention most devevelopers use: “date-title...”.   

Reviewer 4: please proofread.

Author: this is a funny typo haha

in the LORIS directory to configure the project. Make sure `.git/hooks/pre-push` is executable.

**Notes:** Hooks can be skipped with the flag `--no-verify: git push fork --no-verify`.  
Setting up an ssh key can also be useful to avoid the headache of entering your username and password on each push. 

See also: [How to win the love of Travis](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1FDYOiyv-2m_nf2JIhJs8YjUCoHjELNyMNrHuqErD6O0/edit#slide=id.p). 

> (a 2019 presentation by John Saigle).

Reviewer 4: this should be team-internal.

## 2. Rebasing
Rebasing is used when there are conflicts between your branch and the branch your PR is based off of (an alternative to merging). 
Here is a general workflow:

    cd /var/www/loris
    git checkout your_branch
    git fetch aces
    git rebase aces/main
    (#) while (conflicts)  { 
        // fix any conflicts!
        git add  filename
        git rebase --continue
    # } loop back to (#) - fix any remaining conflicts.... until no more conflicts
    git push --force your_fork your_branch
    # --force is often needed here :\
       
This is a specific case. For more information on rebasing, look at this [(2014) Git for LORIS cheat document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1yPx72Z7kJtV3WAcyrwtrMOAtQztzJecVQyaLCJ4jdHg/edit#)!

### Tips for fixing a rebase
1. The most basic way of “fixing” a rebase is to go back to the commit right before the rebase. The easiest way to do this is to either reset or revert to a previous commit. 
For example:
    
       git reset --hard <commit_hash>
       git push -f origin branch-name

> 2. If you rebase the wrong branch or your PR is displaying all the commits from the branch you rebased and displays multiple commits or changed files that are not part of your PR,

Reviewer 4: super important point, doesn't read smoothly.  Can you take another look?

**Title:** [module_name] Quick description   

**[Contents](../../../.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) of the initial comment:** Include a brief summary of the changes and rationale, links to related issues or PRs, and testing instructions if there are any. 

> **Linking issues:** Use GitHub keywords like `Fixes` or `Resolves` so that related issues are closed automatically when the PR is merged. Do not use these key words if you are only addressing one point raised in an issue. This will close the entire issue and leave unresolved bugs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Linking issues:** Use GitHub keywords like `Fixes` or `Resolves` so that related issues are closed automatically when the PR is merged. Do not use these keywords if you are only addressing one point raised in an issue. This will close the entire issue and leave unresolved bugs in the codebase.
```

**Travis:** The Travis build status and results are linked near the bottom of your PR in GitHub. 
You can restart Travis if it gives error messages that seem inappropriate, or if the build stalls (for longer than 1h).
if you are pushing a last typo fix on a PR, it is okay to add `[skip ci]` in the commit message. It is not okay to do this if it's the first commit or if you are fixing more than documentation typos.

**Documentation PRs:** If working specifically on markdown files or other documentation, be sure to check the actual look of the document once you have pushed your PR and fix any formatting errors. You can do this by going to “Files Changed” and viewing how your markdown file will actually appear in GitHub. Don’t forget to click all links. 

## 4. Issues
Every PR should have a related issue that it is fixing. If you are going to be making a 
change, make an issue for it and assign yourself to be the one to fix it!

When you make an issue, there are 4 options: bug fix, feature request, security 
vulnerability, or a blank format. You will probably either be making a bug fix or feature 

> request. In these cases, there will be a format to follow.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
request. In these cases, there will be template to fill out.
```

Be sure to observe and follow conventions for how Issues should be named and described and how to ping other people for input.
 

> Generally we do not assign issues. If someone seems like an obvious candidate to take on an issue, bring their attention to it via slack, and they will self-assign if they feel appropriate.  

Reviewer 4: this is mcin-internal.

          
Then, fetch their remote fork and checkout the branch related to their PR:

>     git fetch remote_name

Reviewer 4: is `remote_name` the standard way we refer to this across all the install docs?  consistency is super important here.

Author: There's no other place in the public docs on Github that mentions forks/remote.
In the latest commit, I made sure everything in this doc was phrased in the same way across sections ("my_fork", "branch_name", etc)

In general, if someone has previously reviewed your PR and requested changes, it is good practice to re-request their review once you have implemented those changes.

If you have requested review on a PR and have not received feedback for a number of days, it is okay to either re-request their review or leave a comment

> on the PR pinging the developer with a short message. For example, "Hey @developer, could you please review this PR and let me know what you think!"

Reviewer 4: let's leave exclamation marks out of public docs. 
```suggestion
on the PR pinging the developer with a short message. For example, "Hey @developer, could you please review this PR and let me know what you think."
```

#### Implementing suggestions or requested changes

> It is good practice to implement any requested changes as soon as possible and then re-request review from the developer. It is also recommended

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It is good practice to implement any requested changes as soon as possible and then re-request review from the developer. It is also helps the team if you acknowledge each comment/request with a few words or just an emoji, so that anyone reading will know you've seen it.```

```
and provide the password on prompt.

> To preview very large tables, use `\G` instead of `;` at the end of a query. This formats the query output nicely, so that you can read through it easier. 

Reviewer 4: this is a specific mysql commandline tip - 
```suggestion
MySQL commandline tip: try using `\G` instead of `;` at the end of a query - this will print one column value per line, which makes the query output easier to read. 
```
